_javascript/examples.md, before:

---
title: Examples
position: 3
right_code: |
    <p class="right-section-title">Photography</p>
    ~~~javascript
    var results = steem.api.getState('/trending/photography', function(err, result) {
    	console.log(err, result);
    });
    ~~~
    
    ~~~json
    {
     "ats-david/nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii": {
     "id": 2202087,
     "author": "ats-david",
     "permlink": "nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii",
     "category": "photography",
     "parent_author": "",
     "parent_permlink": "photography",
     "title": "Nature in Black and White: Volume III",
     "body": "### Do we see the beauty in colorful objects and detailed images the same when color is removed?\n\nHere are more images from my adventures in nature...in black and white, of course.\n\n<hr>\n\n![IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmTb3aYwhUqRuWXjUNWFF8BxG98kzinufY3eMtd1Wggnd1/IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmaw6cofwQMKt8Jpj8Em6VxLYLRU1MYCH5aaQAxefLb3wM/IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmZMAgzj81isjeNZeCSxCBD6TKYAG2n6qc6475rrd9wCCG/IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmV3ECCU9pobunhFa1SgPXTQkiEhYijixqgaqM9Q5RhDGG/IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmXcGpQWDXzuEo2XTzJnErG4rjrgwgbr5TQeQpaM1MwRww/IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmfU8spbdp8isEirVPV1B69LeFVwgj2cucCNyA4kEnCB9h/IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2935-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmVsQUTkdYYVJu2VyHxA6JmHxZY9Re3Pk3Ldkb6Ky2Gmih/IMG",
     "json_metadata": "{\"tags\":[\"photography\",\"nature\",\"life\",\"travel\",\"blackandwhite\"],\"users\":[\"mynameisbrian\",\"ats-david\"],\"image\":[\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmTb3aYwhUqRuWXjUNWFF8BxG98kzinufY3eMtd1Wggnd1/IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmaw6cofwQMKt8Jpj8Em6VxLYLRU1MYCH5aaQAxefLb3wM/IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmZMAgzj81isjeNZeCSxCBD6TKYAG2n6qc6475rrd9wCCG/IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmV3ECCU9pobunhFa1SgPXTQkiEhYijixqgaqM9Q5RhDGG/IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmXcGpQWDXzuEo2XTzJnErG4rjrgwgbr5TQeQpaM1MwRww/IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmfU8spbdp8isEirVPV1B69LeFVwgj2cucCNyA4kEnCB9h/IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmVsQUTkdYYVJu2VyHxA6JmHxZY9Re3Pk3Ldkb6Ky2Gmih/IMG_2935-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmU7DULoUra3yxN9KiUErKpZTf8F33UtjW7KjceZn4hQ8X/IMG_2793_1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmerT739AigSpyXHEn6ariLENvPB6f4KfEZaWoPbNfJXc8/IMG_2814-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmYiU1p14qi57MSw3E8QQJxmeBoMFsJ6TVkXYjGjGcXX6F/IMG_2815-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmVHgDLF7PbiamAxqfs66XXwnrfPwXbo4PrKaWCoSTdRA8/IMG_2628-2_bw.jpg\",\"http://www.steemimg.com/images/2017/03/08/ats_content_slayer_bwd9706.md.jpg\"],\"links\":[\"http://www.steemimg.com/image/OPX18\"],\"app\":\"steemit/0.1\",\"format\":\"markdown\"}",
     "last_update": "2017-03-20T20:48:45",
     "created": "2017-03-20T20:48:45",
     "active": "2017-03-21T15:38:51",
     "last_payout": "1970-01-01T00:00:00",
     "depth": 0,
     "children": 11,
     "children_rshares2": "338868651292331066826618722",
     "net_rshares": "16371652797084",
     "abs_rshares": "29650160882494",
     "vote_rshares": "23010906839789",
     "children_abs_rshares": "30710187259990",
     "cashout_time": "2017-03-21T22:47:20",
     "max_cashout_time": "2017-04-03T20:49:18",
     "total_vote_weight": "15714996608417319864",
     "reward_weight": 10000,
     "total_payout_value": "0.000 SBD",
     "curator_payout_value": "0.000 SBD",
     "author_rewards": 0,
     "net_votes": 312,
     "root_comment": 2202087,
     "mode": "first_payout",
     "max_accepted_payout": "1000000.000 SBD",
     "percent_steem_dollars": 10000,
     "allow_replies": true,
     "allow_votes": true,
     "allow_curation_rewards": true,
     "url": "/photography/@ats-david/nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii",
     "root_title": "Nature in Black and White: Volume III",
     "pending_payout_value": "51.332 SBD",
     "total_pending_payout_value": "52.155 SBD"
      }
     }
    ~~~
    
    ~~~javascript
    for (var results in content) {
        // log each payout amount 
        console.log(pending_payout_value)   
    }
    ~~~
    <p class="right-section-title">Accounts</p>
    ``` javascript
    steem.api.getAccounts(['ned', 'sneak'], function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">State</p>
    ``` javascript
    steem.api.getState('/trends/funny', function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">Broadcast</p>
    ``` javascript
    var steem = require('steem');

    var wif = steem.auth.toWif(username, password, 'posting');
    steem.broadcast.vote(wif, voter, author, permlink, weight, function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">Reputation</p>
    ``` javascript
    var reputation = steem.formatter.reputation(user.reputation);
    console.log(reputation);
    ```
---

### Photography

Utilizing the Javascript library with a few lines of code, display the latest
photography posts, along with payout data. 

You can easily create the next instagram on the steem platform. 

Example site: [snapsteem.com](http://www.snapsteem.com/){:target="_blank"}

##### Let's get started:

Use the get state method to return trending photography posts. 

Displayed is example output of an individual content object returned. 

Last, let's loop over your results and return each payout amount. Using our example above we will have
an object with "content". 

### Accounts

Easily fetch account data on the following users.

### State

Easily fetch state.

### Broadcast

Easily cast a vote for a user.

### Reputation

Easily handle reputation parsing.

Commit message:

fix #231, simple tutorial page, draft pages for #234 and #232

_javascript/examples.md, after:

---
title: Examples
position: 3
right_code: |
    <p class="right-section-title">Photography</p>
    ~~~javascript
    var results = steem.api.getState('/trending/photography', function(err, result) {
    	console.log(err, result);
    });
    ~~~
    
    ~~~json
    {
     "ats-david/nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii": {
     "id": 2202087,
     "author": "ats-david",
     "permlink": "nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii",
     "category": "photography",
     "parent_author": "",
     "parent_permlink": "photography",
     "title": "Nature in Black and White: Volume III",
     "body": "### Do we see the beauty in colorful objects and detailed images the same when color is removed?\n\nHere are more images from my adventures in nature...in black and white, of course.\n\n<hr>\n\n![IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmTb3aYwhUqRuWXjUNWFF8BxG98kzinufY3eMtd1Wggnd1/IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmaw6cofwQMKt8Jpj8Em6VxLYLRU1MYCH5aaQAxefLb3wM/IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmZMAgzj81isjeNZeCSxCBD6TKYAG2n6qc6475rrd9wCCG/IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmV3ECCU9pobunhFa1SgPXTQkiEhYijixqgaqM9Q5RhDGG/IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmXcGpQWDXzuEo2XTzJnErG4rjrgwgbr5TQeQpaM1MwRww/IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmfU8spbdp8isEirVPV1B69LeFVwgj2cucCNyA4kEnCB9h/IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg)\n\n<br />\n\n![IMG_2935-1_bw.jpg](https://steemitimages.com/DQmVsQUTkdYYVJu2VyHxA6JmHxZY9Re3Pk3Ldkb6Ky2Gmih/IMG",
     "json_metadata": "{\"tags\":[\"photography\",\"nature\",\"life\",\"travel\",\"blackandwhite\"],\"users\":[\"mynameisbrian\",\"ats-david\"],\"image\":[\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmTb3aYwhUqRuWXjUNWFF8BxG98kzinufY3eMtd1Wggnd1/IMG_0460-3_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmaw6cofwQMKt8Jpj8Em6VxLYLRU1MYCH5aaQAxefLb3wM/IMG_0461-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmZMAgzj81isjeNZeCSxCBD6TKYAG2n6qc6475rrd9wCCG/IMG_0462-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmV3ECCU9pobunhFa1SgPXTQkiEhYijixqgaqM9Q5RhDGG/IMG_2581-2_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmXcGpQWDXzuEo2XTzJnErG4rjrgwgbr5TQeQpaM1MwRww/IMG_2928-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmfU8spbdp8isEirVPV1B69LeFVwgj2cucCNyA4kEnCB9h/IMG_2912-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmVsQUTkdYYVJu2VyHxA6JmHxZY9Re3Pk3Ldkb6Ky2Gmih/IMG_2935-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmU7DULoUra3yxN9KiUErKpZTf8F33UtjW7KjceZn4hQ8X/IMG_2793_1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmerT739AigSpyXHEn6ariLENvPB6f4KfEZaWoPbNfJXc8/IMG_2814-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmYiU1p14qi57MSw3E8QQJxmeBoMFsJ6TVkXYjGjGcXX6F/IMG_2815-1_bw.jpg\",\"https://steemitimages.com/DQmVHgDLF7PbiamAxqfs66XXwnrfPwXbo4PrKaWCoSTdRA8/IMG_2628-2_bw.jpg\",\"http://www.steemimg.com/images/2017/03/08/ats_content_slayer_bwd9706.md.jpg\"],\"links\":[\"http://www.steemimg.com/image/OPX18\"],\"app\":\"steemit/0.1\",\"format\":\"markdown\"}",
     "last_update": "2017-03-20T20:48:45",
     "created": "2017-03-20T20:48:45",
     "active": "2017-03-21T15:38:51",
     "last_payout": "1970-01-01T00:00:00",
     "depth": 0,
     "children": 11,
     "children_rshares2": "338868651292331066826618722",
     "net_rshares": "16371652797084",
     "abs_rshares": "29650160882494",
     "vote_rshares": "23010906839789",
     "children_abs_rshares": "30710187259990",
     "cashout_time": "2017-03-21T22:47:20",
     "max_cashout_time": "2017-04-03T20:49:18",
     "total_vote_weight": "15714996608417319864",
     "reward_weight": 10000,
     "total_payout_value": "0.000 SBD",
     "curator_payout_value": "0.000 SBD",
     "author_rewards": 0,
     "net_votes": 312,
     "root_comment": 2202087,
     "mode": "first_payout",
     "max_accepted_payout": "1000000.000 SBD",
     "percent_steem_dollars": 10000,
     "allow_replies": true,
     "allow_votes": true,
     "allow_curation_rewards": true,
     "url": "/photography/@ats-david/nature-in-black-and-white-volume-iii",
     "root_title": "Nature in Black and White: Volume III",
     "pending_payout_value": "51.332 SBD",
     "total_pending_payout_value": "52.155 SBD"
      }
     }
    ~~~
    
    ~~~javascript
    for (var results in content) {
        // log each payout amount 
        console.log(pending_payout_value)   
    }
    ~~~
    <p class="right-section-title">Accounts</p>
    ``` javascript
    steem.api.getAccounts(['ned', 'sneak'], function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">State</p>
    ``` javascript
    steem.api.getState('/trends/funny', function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">Broadcast</p>
    ``` javascript
    var steem = require('steem');

    var wif = steem.auth.toWif(username, password, 'posting');
    steem.broadcast.vote(wif, voter, author, permlink, weight, function(err, result) {
        console.log(err, result);
    });
    ```
    <p class="right-section-title">Reputation</p>
    ``` javascript
    var reputation = steem.formatter.reputation(user.reputation);
    console.log(reputation);
    ```
---

You can also check simple tutorials to get started [Tutorials](#tutorialsoverview)

### Photography

Utilizing the Javascript library with a few lines of code, display the latest
photography posts, along with payout data. 

You can easily create the next instagram on the steem platform. 

Example site: [snapsteem.com](http://www.snapsteem.com/){:target="_blank"}

##### Let's get started:

Use the get state method to return trending photography posts. 

Displayed is example output of an individual content object returned. 

Last, let's loop over your results and return each payout amount. Using our example above we will have
an object with "content". 

### Accounts

Easily fetch account data on the following users.

### State

Easily fetch state.

### Broadcast

Easily cast a vote for a user.

### Reputation

Easily handle reputation parsing.
